Thank you very much, everyone, for coming and participating and welcome again. Thank you very much,
everyone.
Again, we're going to talk a little bit on the reminder of the teachings, the teachings of the
Great Teacher,
and therefore again we're going to strengthen our beautiful motivations.
Motivation of the joy and appreciation, and bodhicata, and then Vedayana teachings.
Motivation of other realizations of the three Vedas. Those are all motivations as much as we can
activate it in our heart and mind.
And then we begin to reflect on our teachings. Then according to the teachings, it will come so
beautifully and going to benefit ourselves as well as others to all other beings too.
So therefore, we're going to reflect those beautiful motivations.
And with that, and then again, we're going to talk, continue on the teachings of the, teachings of
Bhai, the Great Teacher.
Japati Dhanurumu Ching, or His Holiness Dhanurumu Ching. And His teachings today, still we're going
on the sixth, this line six, six.
And as I said many times, we're going this time, let it flow, let it detour, and exploring the deep
meaning of each of these teachings, teachings and words.
This is all, of course, I'm going through all this, but reality, or that's all taught in reality,
is all our practices, how we activate it, how we glorify our practices.
So our practice and our goal of the both each other will be smooth and more successful, and
advancing, same time, every difficulty.
Tabolus came on the way of the practice, or during the practices, also how we can handle, how we
can also let it go.
And so it's not just to perish it, or disturb our practices. So in a life, there is generally
always a challenge.
Samsara has so many challenges, that we all know. Whether we are believers, or whether we are not
believers, we all go through.
But that's not stopped, but our beautiful goals. We have to change that direction.
And for those reasons, those great masters of practicalism always mentioned everything used as a
path of advancing, everything as advancing, everything is experiencing.
That means what? When you are experiencing, if it's good, we should be more advanced, more
deepening, and more kind of activating it.
If it's not good, not a good experience, then we try to stop, or prevent it, avoid that.
That means life is learning. We are learning every time, actually. Even though we are out of school
, even when we are out of college, or we are professors, but still we are learning.
We are exploring new things, bring more understanding. This time, Buddha teaching is the best upon
completely teaching on the mind.
We are exploring that inner beauty, inner richness, and so detailed, so thorough, and so practical.
And we explore the beauty, the richness of the mind, mind or inner, that surely will reflect to the
body, activity of the body, activity of the world.
And not just only that, it will also reflect teachings on our perceptions, our conceptions.
So then we begin to really, to smoothen and all the situations, circumstances, accord, or around us
.
So those are really the reasons, where again, all this teaching is.
Now we talk about, we went quite a detour, and a thorough, and quite a deeper way.
I mean, quite a, but still there are so many things to really to explain and go over all the things
, where we went, and now we are talking.
Once you know the importance of the Buddha Dharma Sangha.
Sangha, then we check the rafuddhi in the Buddhist self.
The rafuddhi is ever used, the word, the kind of simple word, rafuddhi is closely connected to the
Buddha Dharma Sangha.
Closely connected, because you know the importance and the benefits and the power of this contract
to the Buddha Dharma Sangha.
Therefore, then you will contract. So that is really, in a way, rafuddhi, rafuddhi.
So, what in the teaching said, and I said many times, rafuddhi is the foundation of all the
Buddhist practices, Buddhism practices.
But the foundation of rafuddhi is faid, F-A-I-T-H, faid, also can be translated as devotions. Faid
are the devotions.
Faid and devotions, generally, every spiritual community is always explaining the importance of the
faid.
Everyone, there is no difference between any schools and faid.
But in Buddhism, faid comes to develop within yourself. You know the meaning, the reason, the
importance of it by yourself and develop that faid or the devotions.
So therefore, Buddhism naturally devotions or the faid is developed by one's own choice. It's
freedom. It's not pressured, not commonly distracted and forced to them.
It's your own genuine, interesting and desire by our own self, really clear mind, distinct in mind.
That is the one really the faid is developed.
Then in the teaching said, as he said yesterday, there is the cause of the faid, how to develop the
faid, there is four different ways to develop the cause freely and openly in our heart.
That was explained, kind of more clarified by the great master of Jumilungma, as he said.
Those are, I listed yesterday, again, I will talk freely again, I will list again that.
First is contracting with spiritual strength. Second is accompanying or associating with spiritual
strength.
Third is knowing the benefit and importance of the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha or above the Dharma.
And third is understanding or tired and bored with samsara. So those are the four different ways to
develop the faid.
It's not that means you have to have all of those to develop the faid. You can have any of those,
well, ignite the outward faid in the heart.
First is contracting with the spiritual strength. I am translating spiritual strength. Also it can
be qualified teaching, contract with the qualified teacher.
And see the qualified teachers, their practice, their meditation, their activity, something that
you feel, oh, that's really nice and comfortable, beautiful, so you are inspired.
Fundamentally you can survive by whatever the activities, so you are inspired. So that is one.
And this is again in the teaching, there are many stories like this, this is how you survive, but
again in the Buddha teaching what is mentioned.
During the Buddha's time, there are so many powerful kings. Of course, the Buddha himself is the
prince of the kings.
Prince of the kings. But very famous, also one of the very well-known kings, kings, is King Prasanj
eta.
Prasanjeta, only to be translated as Yaposadhyas.
Sargayama said, rule the kingdom of the Sharmasthas, that whole area is quite well-known, famous,
very civilized country at that time.
But however, he was not really devoted to the Buddha at all, and of course at the beginning he didn
't know the Buddhists.
But according to the teaching, his position is known as a tsozi, a japur, and he was quite inspired
and devoted to the Buddha.
So this position is visited to the King Sargayam or the King Prasanjeta and mentioned above the
Buddha.
Buddha and his disciples and conduct of the Buddha and activity of the Buddha were living how the
story of the Buddha and then King Sargayam was inspired by the hearing the names of the Buddha or
the story of the Buddha.
And then after that, he became so devoted. King Sargayam became so devoted to the Buddha.
So that is just really one of the examples of the story, but there are numbers I'm sure you
encounter and we all counter in life.
Many people are inspired by that and then they're involved in the practice of them.
So this is what like, in a way, contracting of the friend or the spiritual friends.
And then second is, second or third one is knowing aboard the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha or the Buddha.
And again, this is another, I mean, again, there is a menace, it happens, this is not just only one
time death, but it happens famous or, for example, famous ones.
Famous one is that, and in around, maybe in the fifth century or sixth century, around that time,
there is very famous famous scholars known as Aishwarya Omati Chatter.
And the teaching said he was so devoted to his parents, but parents and family are the non-Buddhist
,
one of the schools, so ancient, one of the Hindu schools. And he started, he learned all those
philosophies of the non-Buddhist schools.
He become the expert, but still he was so devoted to his parents, to his father, to his mother.
Villages named him servant of father, servant of the mothers. Those are really named, devoted
always in their services and the parents.
And then later he become as like, pursued spiritual life and he become the well-known scholars,
well-known scholars of the non-Buddhist schools or Hindus.
At that time, Nalanda Monastery University was very famous, famous.
So many people would say this sense is so great scholar, famous, his reputation is expanding and
glowing,
and many are important. You should go to Nalanda Monastery University, do the debate with those
Buddhist scholars, Buddhist scholars.
If you are able to win from the Nalanda Monastery University, then you will be the super of the
super scholars, scholars.
Because Nalanda Monastery University had so many great scholars, so many great scholars.
And so, he thought that's a really good idea, I am going to go there. So, according to the teaching
, he went there, Nalanda Monastery University.
And he said, he liked to debate. According to the teaching, according to his story, that time, Nal
anda Monastery University,
all those great masters are, in a way, retired, they are not in the monastery at that time.
So, everybody thought, oh, this is really, we heard, he's so famous scholars, and how we can, who
can debate with this?
This debate, who can debate with this? And then, we decided, oh, we should invite or call the Ary
adeva,
who was the foremost disciple of the Nalarjuna. So, we should call him, call him.
And so, there's kind of, again, the longest story, but my short one, the Aryadeva is one of the
foremost disciples of the Nalarjuna,
and he invited, he came. So, now, finally, they debated. Debated, and according to the teaching,
Aryadeva was warned.
Worn, it is defeated. At the beginning, at that time, how they did the debate, according to the
teaching, his story,
at that time, when they made the debate, that means they're using their direct perception while in
the cognitions,
in the emperors while in the cognitions, and then, as, I mean, this true, most principle one,
they're really using that and then debating, debating. So, therefore, whichever is accurate, then
they make the agreement,
at the beginning, whoever wins, and whoever makes the accuracy of the point,
the point, and more meaningful, more tangible, with all that is contradicted by the direct
perception
while in the cognitions, as well as the emperors while in the cognitions, then we will follow.
Whoever wins, we will have to follow to each other. We kept, that means, whichever won, the losers
will follow the winners' philosophy
and their, whatever the practice is. So, that's what their agreement, and they debated.
When they debated on Aria Deva, who won according to the teachings. And now, Aria Deva, when won,
Aria Deva told,
"Now you should become my student at a trade refuge." But, Mati Chaturhata, or Ashuwagoja, don't
want a trade refuge.
So, there, since he don't want a trade refuge immediately, or at that time, he don't want, they
kept him in the room,
room where there's so many books, so many books. He was sitting in the room, there's so many books.
So now, he was kind of sitting in the room, and there's nothing much happening, so he started,
really thought,
"Maybe I'm going to read these books," whatever that was. So, he read these books, and when he
started reading the books,
he really saw beautiful points, one after another. It makes so senses, so beautiful.
And then, he become so, because from that, he become so devoted to the Buddhism,
he become one of the great, again, scholars in Buddhism as Mati Chaturhata.
Or Tukung Paoi to be translated to. That's what really teaching says. So, this is what, again,
inspired by the reading,
knowing the Buddha, Buddha, Dharma, Sangha. Then, he developed a strong connection, or to talk
about this.
So, this is another story of that. Then, not just only that,
I'll talk another story of this. Again, for example, Cai Chisung Dev Ji of Tibet,
one of the most famous, powerful king in Central Asia, that time, in that century.
And Cai Chisung Dev Ji was renowned as a nation of the magicians.
But, when it was young, there is some Buddhist in the royal court, but it's not really popular at
all.
Buddhism is not popular at all in Tibet. So, the young Cai Chisung Dev Ji, the king,
the young king, Chisung Dev Ji, was very, become curious to explore the meaning behind this prison,
this open kind of life. Did he like to explore, not just the only kind of this life,
but then he like to explore something behind of this meaning of life, and like to know more about
that.
And also, something more than just the only kind of like, become only conquering, and fighting, and
ruling,
and then he like to explore a little more deeper, well in the meaning of life.
So, he's very curious, he become kind of like searching, in a way, searching.
At that time, Tibetan power is extending, his domain is extending.
Almost all border countries of Tibet, that time, is Buddhism, whole Buddhism.
So, there are so many Buddhist contracts, all those are generous, and those are all,
generous for going to the border, and when they're coming back, and there's so many news about
Buddhism,
one after another, that. So, then, Chisung Dev Ji has become more, also interested to knowing about
Buddhism.
And around that time, then it was maybe around 16, 17, 18, around that time,
this is one of the ministers, who are also traveling to different border areas,
as like border guard, or the general, or the, there's going to be those areas,
and he's very devoted to Buddhism. His name was something, something was very devoted to Buddhism.
So, when came to Chisung Dev Ji's inquiry of the different spiritual, and particularly about
Buddhism,
he told all this young king, kind of, he's very smart, and very kind of, lecture, like lecture,
young king.
So, now, maybe I should show him some books, or books.
So, he told, and then came, also asked, "Do you have any books or materials that show me about
Buddhism?"
So, Sanning, the municipal Sanning, showed him the first suttara, known as suttara of the Ten Virt
ues.
So, he showed that Ten Virtues suttas. And King Chisung Dev Ji read that, read that,
and he told, "Wow, this is really very good, logical," said that.
And Ten Virtues, already we discussed that, Ten Virtues,
three by the body, four by the speech, and three by the mind, and those make six, or sorry, ten
virtues.
Give up, Joe, in a minute. Give up, Joe.
And give up, Joe, is a void of ten known virtues, ten virtues of suffering.
So, he told, it's really make logic, it's all kind of logic, it makes reasoning, it makes senses.
So, he thought, he thought this conductor of this school, the Buddhist, is quite good.
"Then you have anything else? Show me all books about this."
So, he showed, sort of known as, green rice suttas.
Rice suttas, sala yakum do, in Tibet.
So, sala yakum do is green rice.
He called the teaching, one time, Buddha is walking on the rice field,
and the farmers are interested in the Buddhism, and the teaching from the Buddha is devoted,
and the Buddha picked up handful of the green rice, or the unharvested rice,
picked up that, that, and then Buddha kind of started to give the teaching,
teaching about cause and conditions, and interdependent systems, with that falling of the rice
grains.
So, called, sala yakum do.
So, Chaso Devi had now got that, and he read that.
Wow, this is really, he saw so nice.
So nice, his conduct is real, and will is really quite good.
So, he's also united, they're not separate like that.
He thought it's wonderful.
And then, he can ask if you have any other kinds of books to show off.
And then, also, minister gave him to the diamond suttas, and he read diamond suttas.
He thought, wow, this will is so good, perfectly.
So, conduct is good, and conduct is good, and will is good,
and also practice is combination of the will and the conduct.
So, it is really, meditation is so good.
So, therefore, will, conduct, and meditation, all good.
I like to explore this, and I like to invite these masters on these countries,
and I like to give the gift of that to my 20 people.
Then, he really decided, he got a strong determination thought.
So, therefore, this is what, in this way, what we call,
yesterday we said there is whole kind of faith, or three.
Interesting faith, and desirable faith, and trust faith.
So, just so deeply, develop those all three.
Three, positive, of course, interesting faith.
Second is, then, desire.
I like to know more about faith than trust faith.
He developed that.
So, that's how it really all happened.
So, this is the little story of how those parents are developing.
Then, renunciation of the parents,
all the knowing the world and the samsara,
with the samsara situation and circumstances,
boiled, boiled, boiled, and tired.
B-O-R-E-G.
B-A-R-E-G.
So, I think, you know, bored.
I'm bored and tired of when you say bored.
So, bored and tired, so many people in the Buddhist history,
so many great masters, really tired and bored,
bored and completely turned their mind to the Dharma.
That is so many stories, and one of the big stories of the great master,
Mola Redma too.
He was tired. He was bored.
He was all those activities, what he did,
and also feel something new, kind of like, feel the resentment.
And all that, then, he turned his mind and heart to the Dharma completely,
and then he gained the highest spiritual realization
within that, his life, within a short period of time.
So, this is what really that developed the pain
through the bold and tired of the samsaras.
So, that is really about it.
Then, when you develop those devotions or the pain,
I say the interesting devotions or interesting pain,
and the desire pain, and the trusty pain, uncheckable pain.
All of those, each of those are accorded teaching,
so powerful, each of those.
And I will tell a story of the interesting power of the interesting devotions.
This, again, of course, has happened throughout all the generations,
but this I'm talking about during the Buddha time,
what Buddha has talked about.
One time, Buddha and Ananda and his students are walking along the river
to the city for lunch, lunch, and lunch.
That means, in Buddhism, all those ancient monks and nuns,
traditionally, they go to the midday, or before the midday,
to the villages or the city, get food, or they receive the food, donations, food.
And also, when they receive the food,
they're not going to make the comment about the food.
Wherever, primarily, you go, if you receive the food,
that's it, you will receive the food,
recklessly, with thankfully, joyfully receive the food,
and then take that and eat that.
Not going to make the commentaries of the food,
or say, "Oh, I want this, I don't want this," and that things.
Not also going from the house to house, trying to get more food, no?
Accorded the teachings.
So, ancient time, that was the Buddha told.
And that's what asked the Buddha, told Buddha himself,
doing that same thing.
To all the students, they go to the tom, before the noon, receive the food.
So, they're now walking near the bank of the river.
On the bank of the river, there are quite a few children playing the sand castles.
Sand castles, I think they call it, sand castles.
And some children are appointed as king,
others are named as ministers, others are named as subjectors,
and they make sand castles, this is the palace, this is the treasure meter,
and that is telly managers, and so forth, they really created their names,
and they're playing the dharma on the sand, that river banks.
Far away, Buddha and the students are coming.
Among that, one child, one boy, was so inspired by seeing the Buddha.
He didn't know any rhythms or any things, but he was so inspired.
And he really liked it, because also that boy was acting as king,
among them, named as king.
So, he thought, I'm going to offer him by treasure department,
I'm going to offer the treasure, the jewel.
So, he told that his minister opened the door of the treasure store,
and he did that, and he took up the handful of the sand
from where they were named as treasure houses.
And he liked to put that in the Buddha's begging books, arms walls.
Buddha is according to teaching, he's a giant.
So, this young boy couldn't reach to the Buddha.
And he told this young boy to say to his minister,
you must lower your body, what's called, bend your body,
so that he can climb up his body and offer that.
And so, this minister, his minister, who was minister name,
and he bent his body, and this young boy who held the handful of sand
and going to put in the arms walls.
So, he did that, and Buddha also graciously let it lower down his arms,
and then a young boy was able to put the handful of sand in the Buddha's begging walls.
He was so delighted and happy, he thought I did it so well.
I offered my jewels to this interesting individual or say it is.
And Buddha said, give that to the sand or that dirt.
He said, keep this and put this around the stupas.
And Buddha gave that to the ananda and asked him,
keep that and put it around the stupas.
And then Buddha said, in 100 years after my mother in Nirvana,
he will become the great kings
and build so many monuments of the Buddha everywhere.
That's what really he said.
So, this is what inspired faith, resolved with inspired faith,
that he believed.
Then who was that king?
According to Buddhism, that was King Achok.
The greatest king, the historically great king and ruler of India,
who ruled majority part of the issues, even he didn't have to fight later.
He built up his arms.
He gave up his everything in the arms and he gave up weapons.
He promised, at the beginning of the time Achok was very vital and cruel.
But once he met the teaching and the Buddhism teaching
and his complete change in his mind,
he developed, as we're talking here, an unshakeable devotion
or the pay to the Buddhism.
And he gave up violence at all, all the violence activities.
And then he became the most religious spiritual king,
king in human historians.
Historians.
And he built so many monuments in India,
really throughout India and Nepal and all the border and hundreds,
because he conquered all those areas without fighting.
So many kings and all those kings.
Just his dominion, so easy, so confident.
And just they came.
So this is the story of King Achok, how he started that.
Because of his offerings.
The inspired devotion or pay that he met, this, this.
Then there's many other stories too.
I mean, you all know, I think many of you know,
you can see what Buddhism teaches, those pay.
Interesting generally, we are using as an interesting pay,
desired pay, and trusty pay, unshakeable pay.
Those are, say, kind of one after another,
but those are not just kind of like one,
develop them, and then it takes a long time to develop the next one.
It depends with the individualism.
Someone developed all that so soon, really so soon,
so quickly, so soon.
And sometimes, some individualism takes time,
comes here gradually, one after another there.
But it comes, and for example, those are so developed,
so fast and quickly, but of course,
now first he's kind of inspired yourself
by hearing the stories, hearing the names,
or hearing these gardeners of the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
And this is again, also my perfect teacher has that too.
I mean, you can read.
It's a kungun being in the center of it, in the kungun area.
There's one man called mungun, me.
Me.
And he heard a lot of good reputations.
They were the stage of the joar in the center debate.
He heard it so many times.
So he thought, I'm very interested.
I like to see.
I like to go see.
And so many of course, so many of course,
all that he thought, but he was very kind of like slow,
what's called slow mind.
Very orthodox slow mind. In the debate, we call it limba.
Limba is slow mind.
But limba is not the kind of limber.
Actually, in the debate and consumption,
they think limba is generally good,
because once they decide it, they're just so stable.
That's it.
Whatever they decide, that really stays so strong.
So they are like very, many times, limba are like golden.
They never change whatever.
They are just so strong.
So this kungunbi is a lima, lima man.
He is not so kind of like, so many thoughtful,
thinking, thoughts and consulsions, these and that things.
So he presents, he heard so many good things about joar.
He came to Lhasa, center debate, went to play Gremmish.
And of course, many of you know that.
That's all you read in the books of the Prophet's teachers,
all the other books.
So he came.
So when he came, it's kind of somehow, when he came,
there is no one in that room.
In the Gremmish temple.
There is no one.
So he came.
He looked at Gremmish, and it's very beautiful,
nice looking statues.
He told, he's really so nice and peaceful.
And then in front of there, so many like butter lamps.
And also there's so many kind of nice-looking dormas.
Dormas.
So he thought, wow, this is really cozy and so nice.
He told this, all these butter lamps,
ah, he has so many lamps because it keeps warm in the room.
Warm, so that.
And then also, there's so many food, all those dormas.
And there's a lot of food.
So he feels, I'm a little hungry.
I'm going to eat a little bit, a little bit of this food.
And I'm going to take this.
So he picked up some dormas.
And it dipped in the butter lamp oil, the oil, and he ate.
It's delicious.
[LAUGHTER]
Well, he's eating.
He looked up to the Gremmish stages.
Gremmish looks at the lady smiling.
And she said, wow, you're really good lama.
He said, you're really good lama.
I'm using your food and your food.
But still you're laughing.
You're smiling.
You're so good.
So now, April, he's filled with tummy, I believe.
So filled his tummy.
And he said, I'm going to go one--
a certain ambulance to you.
So I don't want to wear my shoes.
I'm going to go bare feet.
Feet, circle, and where do you keep my shoes?
Shoes.
So he left the shoes off.
And he left the shoe right in front of the dorm.
And then he went to a certain ambulance.
Went to a certain ambulance.
So during that time, the caretaker came.
And he thought, who did this?
This was believing that he had such shoes
in a temporary temple's rooms.
And he thought, turn, throw that.
And the teaching said, [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
You spoke that time.
Don't throw that.
That must have asked me--
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
--ask me to keep this.
Don't throw that.
So then he came back.
And he said, you're really such a good lama, he said.
Again, he told him.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
He never told his teachers.
He really told his living Buddha right there.
Right there.
He never.
So he said, you're a good lama.
I'd like to invite you to my home next year.
I will make my tradition the biggest arrangement to you.
And even I'm going to make nice [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
So I have a big [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And with big [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
So I'm waiting you.
You will come.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
He also said, yes.
So then he went.
He went and returned back to his home.
And the village, he told his wife that I met very good lama
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And he's so nice and old, he said stories.
And I invited him.
He says, he's coming.
So I don't know exactly that he will really come.
But he's supposed to come in one year.
So please, you should look when he comes.
We immediately have to invite him.
So then he really prepared all those food and chum.
The alcohol, they usually like that.
Sometimes it's actually like, keep the pork one year.
Those are known as the vintage alcohol, for example.
When the family member goes and they're traveling,
they make the chum.
Chum and then keep that chum alcohol, leave it like that.
For whole year, when they come back,
those family members come return back to home.
And then when they kind of open that chum and celebrate it.
So those are called [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And so I think he met that and prepared.
So according to his story and the teaching,
the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] really came.
And the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] that monument of the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
came is that blessed printed [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
also in water as well as in a stone nearby the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
house.
So this is what-- it is all [INAUDIBLE]
of those three prepared, one up another, not immediately.
He had the interesting devotions.
And that's why he went.
But then that very desired devotion, our desire
of faith, and trusted faith, and inshakable faith,
all that developed during the process of where he is enjoying
the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And then what is all?
He able to speak to [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Why?
Because his faith has devoted.
And that is a story.
There are so many stories that you know that really
purify the obscurations, obstacles,
and increase the merit.
They say the power of the mind, when
you open the door of the power of the mind, it is inconceivable.
It is so powerful.
That's what what I said.
Power of the mind is so--
that inconceivable.
And the material powers, they're exploring
by modern scientists, scientists really explore.
It's so powerful, so technological.
Look at this.
Now we are maybe physically distanced,
maybe many hundreds of miles.
But then, virtual reality, whatever this technology,
we are within one room, in a way, talking to each other.
And this is high text.
This is a material development.
But mental power developed.
That is-- according to Buddha's teaching,
it's trillion times more powerful than the material powers.
Maybe 500 years, 300 years, if somebody
tells the story of what happened in the 20th century,
the 21st century, nobody will believe.
Everyone will think this man or this little lady is Google.
Everybody will see that, truly that.
But now, reality is here, all this.
We are going in the sky with big house, eating, drinking,
talking, watching, like plants.
I mean, it's just like 300 years of this unbelievable status.
This is the power of the developed by materials.
But mental development.
Mind is already powerful.
We know.
Even we didn't develop it.
Even it's completely shielded with all the obscurities
according to Buddhism.
Yet, it's so powerful.
And everyone revere that goal and say,
in front of our player, wear that.
Then, this Buddha's goal, this power of the enlightened beings
is not mythological.
It is true stones, true evidence,
the flexible openness of nature.
When it's openness, it is then all that really you can see.
Then that's what said samsara is turning to the nirvana
or the pure levels.
These are not methodical stories.
Reality that we can do.
Those great masters did.
So that's my brief talk.
Again, it went a little longer by the stories and all that.
And thank you again.
OK, thank you.
And then see you tomorrow.
Thank you again.
We do your meditation.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]